Audio Mixing is a skill and art that takes years of practice to fully develop. Don’t worry if that sentence makes the idea seem intimidating. The goal of this page is to break down the concept of audio mixing and go over some common techniques in order to get you started with making your own unique sounds and music. The experience will come as you do more mixes and get feedback on your projects!

In general, mixing audio is exactly what it sounds like: taking multiple audio sources and combining them into a cohesive final product. This involves adjusting the levels of various sounds, altering timbres with effects to create the desired effects/blending, automation of parameters, and more.

Studio One 6 does its mixing through the mixing console, which can be brought up with the Mix button in the bottom right of the screen. If you have a second monitor available, I recommend popping the window out and keeping it on the second monitor as the mixing console can take up a lot of screen space. Here we will be able to monitor and control everything that is part of our mix, just like a physical mixing console. Let’s start with the most noticeable feature of a console, the faders.

Each channel in your project will have a fader in the mix console. This fader controls the volume of everything on that channel, and is the last part of the signal chain before it is sent to the main output. You can utilize this to make sounds louder or softer to create the balance that you want. Notice that by default, each channel begins at 0dB (also called Unity Gain). This means that there has been no alteration to the original volume of the source. If you pull a slider down into the negative values, the sound will get softer, and pushing it up into the positive values will make it louder. Because of how the human ear hears volume, a change of approximately 10dB will be perceived as the sound doubling or halving in volume. 

You may notice that on these faders, the majority of the fader is below 0 dB. This is in part because if you boost everything, you will quickly run into clipping and distortion. In general, you will be making sounds softer in order to balance them without making things too loud. You can still boost things past Unity Gain, but there is much less headroom when doing so. If you have a sound that is too quiet, it is usually good practice to make other elements in your mix quieter instead of just making the problematic element louder. 

In the Mix Console you can also control the panning of an audio channel. This value can be viewed as a ratio between the left and right speakers. When a sound is panned hard right it is only coming out of the right speaker, hard left for the left speaker, and when panned center (default) it will be coming out of both speakers equally. Panning can be controlled in the Mixing console through the blue vertical bar above the fader. Simply drag it to the left or right depending on your desired panning.

Audio effects are used in order to change the recorded sound in order to develop your desired mix. Perhaps you want to add reverb to the vocals, distortion to the guitars, or an echo on just the chorus, and only in the horns. All of these and more are possible through the mixing console. In Studio One 6 you can add effects to the Inserts section of the mixing console. You can either drag and drop them from the browser window or click the plus icon next to the word Inserts to select your sedated effect from a list. Once added, the audio signal will be passed through the effect before being panned and having its volume adjusted with the fader. Each audio effect has its own unique interface that allows you to control exactly how the effect is altering the sound. When adding multiple effects, they are all applied to the audio signal in series. Meaning the sound will go through the topmost insert, then the second one, and so on down the list of however many you may have. Depending on the effects in use, changing the order of the inserts could potentially create a greatly differing sound.

The last general concept we will discuss in this section is routing audio. In the mixing console you can control exactly where audio comes from and goes within the DAW. You can change which interface input a channel is connected to, group up multiple channels and send them to different places, create sub mixes and more. One of the more useful things that can be done with this is to create a Bus channel and send multiple audio sources to it. Then you can easily boost, cut, or process multiple sounds at once. It is common to group up similar instruments such as the drums or guitars into a group.

The [Studio One 6 online manual has an entire chapter on mixing and the mix console](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Mixing_Topics/Chapter-Mixing.htm?TocPath=Mixing%257C_____0). Be sure to check it out for more information on the topics indroduced here, as well as any other features of the Mix window!

Handy tips:

While there is no ‘correct’ way to mix, there are a few general practices and techniques that you can utilize in order to make your mixes better. Try a few of these out, but remember, as long as the mix sounds like you want it to, then it is doing its job.

* Minimize overlapping:
	The main goal of mixing is to combine all of the parts of your music together so that everything can be heard in a balanced way. Nothing is covering up anything else, and is nice and clear. To help with this, it is a good practice to minimize any overlapping in both frequency content and panning. When using an equalizer, in addition to shaping the sound, it is handy to remove problematic frequencies that could interfere with other instruments. For example, if you want to mainly hear the bass guitar as the bass voice of a song, you may need to remove some of the bass frequencies of other instruments so that they don’t cover up the desired sound as much. If you have multiple instruments with similar ranges and sounds, such as having two guitar parts, try panning them to different locations in order to clearly separate them  for the listener. This way both parts can be heard without them interfering with each other as much.

* Parallel Processing:
	As mentioned above the audio inserts are applied to a sound source in series. However you can easily create a new channel and process the sound in parallel instead. To do this, right click and create a new FX channel, then on the sound source, click the little + icon next to the sends section and select your new channel. Now you can add an effect chain to the FX channel and you will hear both the original sound and the altered sound in the final mix. This is useful if you have a unique effect you want to add to a sound only at certain times in the song. Simply bring up the FX channel fader when you want more, and lower it when you want less. Try it with effects like reverb and compression!

* Automation:
	While not strictly part of the Studio One mixing console, remembering to automate your mix is necessary in creating a cohesive mix from start to finish. It is basically impossible that all of your recordings will be perfectly balanced for the entire duration of your song, especially once you begin adding effects or recordings from multiple sources into the mix.  While you can automate almost everything in the mix, adding slight automations to just the volume faders is probably the most effective automation you can do. You can mark different sections of the song and have the mix automatically change based on the time. This way perhaps you could have the drums get louder in a chorus, or backing vocals fade out over a verse. At the very least it will allow you to maintain balance between parts regardless of the volume of the source recording.
