Microphones work as electronic ears. Using electricity, they receive an incoming sound wave and convert it to electricity, then send that electricity off somewhere else to be used or recorded via wires. This process is extremely similar to the human ear converting sound waves into nerve impulses and sending those to the brain. There are many different microphones, but they can generally be broken into three main categories. Each of these categories of microphones go about doing the same thing in slightly different ways. This list is not exhaustive, but will cover the main types of microphones you will run into when recording.

Dynamic microphones are handy for several reasons. Generally speaking, dynamic microphones are sturdy. They can handle louder volume levels and physical abuse better than other kinds of microphones. Generally, they are seen a lot in live music performances and for recording louder sounds like drums.

A dynamic microphone works by having a diaphragm that incoming sound waves hit. The pressure causes the diaphragm to move back and forth. This movement is a VERY small amount, but enough for the microphone to work. Connected to the diaphragm is a wire which is coiled around a magnet. This movement causes a small amount of electrical current to be created. This current is analogous to the air pressure, and sent through the wires from the microphone to be recorded or amplified. Because of how they work, generally a dynamic microphone needs to be close to the sound source in order to pick it up accurately.

Condenser microphones tend to be more delicate than dynamic microphones, and can generally be found in a studio recording setting. There are two different sub-categories of condenser microphones, but they both function in the same way. A diaphragm picks up incoming sound waves, which moves the diaphragm. However unlike a dynamic microphone, in a condenser there is a second metal plate with an electric current flowing through it. Simplifying the internal circuit, as the two diaphragms move closer and farther from each other the resulting electric current will change so that it is analogous to the incoming sound wave, which is then sent off to be used elsewhere. The main difference between the two subtypes is the size of these diaphragms. Small-diaphragm condensers are useful for getting accurate recordings, whereas large diagrams are usually used for adding a unique color to the recorded sound. Condenser microphones require an additional 48 volts of phantom power in order to function, but can generally be placed farther away from the source than a dynamic microphone.

Ribbon microphones are the third main category of microphones. They function by having an extremely thin metallic ribbon suspended in a magnetic field. Similar to the cochlea, different frequencies will stimulate different portions of the ribbon. The vibrating strip will then generate an electric signal to be used elsewhere. Historically these microphones are extremely delicate. Excessive electric current could burn out and destroy the ribbon. Modern ribbon microphones are more resilient, and a few require phantom power in order to work, but they are still fairly delicate. Ribbon microphones can offer a unique color and warmth to a sound that other microphone types do not have. Generally, they have been used on voices and when recording electric guitar amplifiers.

All microphones have a polar pattern. That is a specific area that they are designed to pick up sound from. Most microphones will be a cardioid pattern, which has a dedicated “hot” end, and another end that rejects any sounds. When drawn in two dimensions, this pattern looks similar to a heart. 

A few other common patterns are:

* Hypercardioid
* Figure 8
* Omnidirectional
