Once a sound wave has been converted into electricity it can either be recorded or amplified for use in a live performance, however in modern instances, most recordings are done by computers. In order to create an audio file that can be worked with in a DAW and played back on other devices, the electric signal must be digitized. In order to do this, the computer needs a special circuit called the Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC). The ADC takes a sample of the incoming electric current, determines the level of the current at that time, and saves the value as a number. This process happens thousands of times every second, and is called the sampling rate.

The standard audio sampling rate is 44,100 Hz, however for higher quality recordings this can be increased. 48,000 and 96,000 are common high-definition sample rates. As you might expect, increasing the number of samples will increase the size of the file. Heavily summarized, the reason that the sample rate is so high is that in order to replicate the frequencies in a recording, a sample rate must be at least twice as high as the original frequency. At 44,100 Hz, all of the general range of human hearing is covered. For more information on this phenomena, check out the Nyquist theorem.

When taking a sample the ADC must be able to save each sample as a number. The total number of options for these numbers is referred to as the bit-depth. Standard audio has a bit-depth of 16 bits. That is 216, or 65536 potential options. As the bit-depth increases, the computer is able to more accurately represent the original file, similar to an image rendered at  480p versus an image rendered in 4k. Classic 8-bit audio sounds have their unique timbre in part because of the lower bit-depth.

Once the file has been made it can be freely edited within the computer. While a person could manually edit the individual sample values, at a minimum of 44,100 values per second, this is not practical or recommended. Instead you can utilize a DAW in order to build up and edit multiple recordings at once into a single new file. When playing back an audio file, a separate circuit called the Digital-to-Analog Converter (DAC) is used to achieve this. The DAC will read the numbers of the sound file in order and use that to calculate an electronic voltage. This voltage is then output to a speaker.

A standard speaker works like a dynamic microphone, just in reverse. An electric current is fed into a wire. This wire is wrapped around a magnet and connected to a diaphragm. As the electric current changes, this causes fluctuations in the magnetic field, moving the connected diaphragm back and forth. This movement pushes the air molecules in front of the speaker, resulting in sound waves that can be heard by a listener.
