Studio One is a Digital Audio Workstation (DAW). DAWs allow you to be able to arrange and edit various sound sources into a single file that can be played back on various other devices. To do this, it is helpful to be able to replay what you have been working on in order to make changes. Studio One does this with the transport bar at the bottom of the main window. Here you can see useful information such as where the playhead currently is (both in seconds and in musical bars) You can toggle the playback with the play and stop buttons, as well as move the playhead by various amounts and return it to the beginning of the song with the various arrow buttons. When playing, Studio One will render each channel as audio and send it through the Main Output to whichever speakers you have connected to your computer. If you press play and can’t hear anything, make sure you are not muted, then make sure you have the correct output selected from the main page. (click home then “Configure Audio Device”.)

You can also trigger recording from the transport bar as well. When you click the record button, all armed tracks (little record button on the track) will begin recording their inputs, so make sure to check what things are armed before you record so that you don’t overwrite anything important!

When playing back audio, you will likely focus on smaller sections of the larger project. In order to avoid a headache with managing the playhead, Studio One has a handy loop feature. You can activate the loop by clicking the loop button in the transport bar. You will then see a small triangle turn blue at the beginning of the timeline above your tracks. You can click and drag this to select a portion of your song. You will see the triangle turn into a bar and the background of the main window will darken to indicate it is within the looping area of the project. You can toggle the loop on and off, and the marker will remain in the last place you set it.

Both the beginning and end of this marker are movable so you can arrange this bar to fit wherever you need. You can also enter the left and right location of the loop bar using the bar numbers to the right of the loop button. When looping is active the playhead will automatically jump to the beginning of the loop marker whenever it reaches the end.

Whenever exporting a mixdown it is important to select exactly how much audio you wish to export. The default option for selecting this is to utilize the loop marker’s positions. When exporting, it is easiest to adjust the loop bar to encompass the entire project prior to beginning the export process. That way you can export everything at once without having to go back and adjust the loop marker or the section flags. The looping does not need to be active when exporting the mixdown, but having it highlighted may be easier to visually line everything up.
