When recording MIDI it is extremely likely that some of your notes will be slightly off of the metronome. This is due to both human error in performing as well as latency between the various devices. In some instances the difference may not be enough to notice or may be a desired effect. When working with your MIDI recordings you can utilize the quantize tool in order to quickly and easily set your MIDI information to the desired metric placement. 
When the computer quantizes a MIDI note it looks at the beginning of the note and then changes the starting position to the closest metric division. This can be both extremely useful and extremely frustrating at the same time. This is useful for lining up material, but frustrating because the computer does NOT analyze if something is intended to be on a specific beat; it just moves the note to the closest option. When quantizing, ALWAYS be sure to double check what has happened and make any adjustments as necessary. Errors can be mitigated with proper settings, but it is good practice to double check.
To quantize, first select the MIDI event you wish to work with and open the EDIT window. Select the notes you wish to quantize and then click the Q button to open the Quantize menu. Here you can set various settings such as the metric division for the quantization, swing,  velocities, and patterns. The specific division will depend on the content, but the 8th or 16th note divisions are generally a good place to start. You can set the quantization to follow a specific groove, but that is beyond the scope of this course. What is extremely useful for this course however is the ability to save quantization presets. By default 5 exist with different metric divisions, but if you will be having multiple different quantization settings, saving them and easily swapping between them is a major time saver. When you have set your various settings, click Apply to execute the quantization. 
In order to quantize effectively, there are a few techniques and tools that can help you, and offer different results rather than just hoping your settings are right and relying on the computer.

* Swing: The swing parameter will shift notes on the upbeats away from the grid. Higher percentages will result in more dramatic shifts, though sometimes a subtle use of the swing parameter can be very effective.
* Humanize: Humanize is available from the Action menu in the Piano Roll Editor. Running the Humanize action while notes are selected will randomly shift their timing slightly off the grid, making the performance a little less perfect but potentially more “natural”.
* Manual Adjustment: Holding Shift while dragging notes will prevent them from snapping to the grid. You can use this technique to make individual notes happen just a little early or late (a technique often used in hip hop and neo soul drum programming). This can be especially effective on snare drums or claps.
* Miscellaneous: Look at some of the other actions in the Action menu – “Length” and “Velocity” are particularly helpful. They can help to make the lengths and velocities of MIDI notes that you recorded more even and regular if desired.
