The Arrow Tool is the main tool that you will be using in Studio One 6. It is selected by default, and can be easily reselected by pressing the 1 key on your number bar. The Arrow Tool is context sensitive, meaning that it will do different thing depending where on the event you are clicking.

Moving/selecting events: When the mouse is located on the TOP half of an event, you can click to move the event around the main work area. The mouse will look like a standard pointer cursor to help indicate this. Moving an even left or right will change its location in time, while moving it vertically will change which track it is on. Dragging an event past the last track in your session will place it on a new track. When in this mode, you can also click on an event to select it in its entirety. This is useful when wanting to apply a process to only a few specific clips, or if you want to move an entire clip to a new location.

Selecting portions of events: When selecting the bottom half of an event, the cursor will change to a crosshair icon. When this icon is present, you can click and drag to select a portion of an event. Once selected, whichever operation you perform next will be applied to ONLY the selected portion. This includes moving the event, so be sure you have everything you want or you may accidentally slice your event in a place you don’t want to!

Trimming events: When selecting the ends of an event, the cursor will change to be a horizontal arrowhead and a line. This indicates that you can click to trim whichever end of the event your mouse is located on. Simply click and drag to remove any unwanted things at the end of a recorded file! You can also click and drag the event to be longer. This is useful when working with MIDI, but remember that you cannot extend an audio file past its original length!

Audio Envelopes: You can also adjust the audio envelopes for your files using the Arrow Tool. Simply select an audio event, and you will see three flags appear on the top of the event. The triangle-shaped flags can be dragged out towards the center of the event to create a fade in or fade out, and the maximum volume of the clip can be adjusted by dragging the square-shaped flag up or down. If you want, you can also adjust the speed of the fades with the new flag that will appear when you implement a fade.

The Split Tool is useful for splitting an event wherever you click. You can access this tool by selecting the razer blade icon or presing 3 on your number bar. When using this tool, any events you click on will be split into two separate events at the mouse’s location. If you want to delete a part of an event, you can use the Split Tool to separate the undesired portion, and then delete it by either selecting it and deleting it with the backspace key, or using the erase tool and clicking on the event. The erase tool will delete whichever event you click on when used. 
