When recording audio there is a limit as to how loud a sound source can b ein order to be accurately recorded and reproduced. If a sound source is recorded with too much gain, then it will be distorted. This happens because the ADC will be unable to properly convert the excessively large signal to a specific numeric value. All values that are too large will be recorded as the largest possible value possible by the ADC. Effectively clipping off part of the audio. This can be clearly seen when looking at the waveform for the audio file.

In addition to distortion, clipping can sound like clicks and pops as well. This is in part because of the extremely fast sampling rate. Unless a sound source is EXTREMELY loud and the recording is improperly set up, there will still be a large number of the original samples that will not be clipped. The result of this is generally being able to hear the original sound with the clipping mixed into it.

In general, the best way to avoid clipping is to make sure nothing is too loud. When mixing a red notification light will appear on the mixing console for the main output channel to indicate clipping. When mixing the audio care should be taken to make sure nothing is too loud. A simple fix is to lower the main output volume. Another option is to find the offending portion of audio and make it softer to remove the clipping. Depending on the context of the music however this may be difficult as it can alter the balance between the various sound sources. 

Another way to avoid clipping is with the use of a limiter. A limiter is an audio effect that will limit the dynamic range of a sound source, keeping it from becoming too loud. While quick and easy, this could reduce the total dynamic range of the track which may not be desired. To do this in Studio One, place a limiter effect on the post section of the main output. This is the final section before the audio is sent to the speakers, so it will encompass the whole mix equally. Set the preset to 0 dB and then the audio will never pass 0dB, and cannot clip.
