When recording anything, it is helpful to have a metronome to keep time. This will allow the performer to stay in sync with other performers or any pre-recorded tracks. You can see the metronome in the bottom right of the screen. It is the right-most section of the transport bar. 

To set the tempo for the metronome, you can double click on the number above the word Tempo, and then enter the desired beats-per-minute (BPM) of your song. If you don’t know the exact BPM, then you can keep clicking at the desired tempo in order to set the tempo to match the rate of your clicking.

You can adjust the time signature as needed with the Timing section. The default is 4/4, but you can adjust this to match the music you are recording. This is useful because it will change the grid to match when the timebase is set to Bars, allowing for easier lining up of content, as well as changing the metronome sounds to clearly mark each measure.

To hear the metronome, there are three different setting windows we can access above the Metronome sections. The icon that looks like an analog metronome (the triangle and stick) turns the metronome on and off. You can also trigger this with the C key. The circle icon indicates the precount. When this is on the metronome will click for a certain amount of time BEFORE the recording starts. This is useful for letting the performer feel the tempo before they need to begin playing, and is recommended whenever recording. If you want the performer to hear other things, you can turn on pre-roll, which will behave the same, except instead of clicking the metronome, will playback the session contents before recording begins.

In order to change how long the precount is, load presets, or change the metronome sound you can click on the wrench icon to open the metronome settings. One useful tool is the render button. This will take the metronome settings you have and render the metronome as an audio track. This is useful for saving on CPU performance, but if any timing elements of your project change, you will have to update the rendered track.

For mroem information on the Studio One 6 metronome controls, check out the [Studio One online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Recording_Topics/Metronome_Control.htm?TocPath=Recording%257C_____4).
