Most DAW’s function by locating audio files saved on the computer, and then using various algorithms, analyzes the file contents and creates a new file based on the user’s inputs. In order to do this, the DAW needs to remember exactly where source files are saved, how to edit those files, and more. In most cases when you save a DAW session, the resulting file is not a copy of everything in the session, but rather is a set of instructions for how the DAW can locate the necessary files to build the session the next time it is opened. This is exactly what is happening when Studio One 6 creates a new .song file whenever your session is saved. 

It is important to realize this distinction about the DAW save files: They are NOT audio files. A person cannot take the save file and listen to it like they could a .mp3 or .wav file. They must have the appropriate DAW for that file type and any other necessary files in order to build the session. If I were to create a mix on my computer in Studio One, and then share only the .song file with a friend, they would be unable to do anything with it because their computer would not have the same files saved in the same places, or the same plugins as my computer would. This is super annoying and problematic, so how does Studio One get around this?

Some DAWs will automatically package everything into the save file so the session can be opened in any instance of the DAW, but this can result in problematically large file sizes. Studio One users can share their sessions in a few different ways. One is to export the mixdown of your session. This will take all of the audio, render it with effects, and create a stereo audio file such as a .mp3 or .wav that can be played on most devices. These files can be easily shared, but not separated and edited in a DAW. 

To hare a DAW session with someone (who is not an online collaborator), You will need to share all of the necessary files. These are located within the project folder. When saving the session for the first time, Studio One will make a folder that contains everything for that project. This includes: .song files, mixdowns, stems, backups, and copies of the source files. To share, in Studio One, go to File > Save to new Folder to copy everything into a new folder that you can then easily put on a flash drive or zip up to send via email with someone else. Remember that you have now made a copy of the original session so any changes made on one file will NOT sync with the other.

Some teachers may want you to copy the project folder for project submissions while others may just want the mixdown. Be sure to communicate with your teacher about exactly which format they are looking for.

Saving to a new folder is a great way to back up your projects, especially since the folder includes any mixdowns you've made as well. It is a good practice to back up projects as you are working on them. That way if something happens and you lose the file, you can recover a portion of your work, or can easily document and share the finished product. It is recommended for the students to have access to a drive of some kind to backup projects. This could take the form of a flash drive or SD card that the student uses, a larger class drive that everyone saves to, or online cloud storage. But no matter what it looks like, the projects should be backed up!

Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Saving,%20Import%20and%20Export/Saving%20Options.htm?TocPath=Saving%252C%2520Import%2520and%2520Export%257C_____5) for more information on ways to save and back up your projects!
