Being able to identify your tracks is super important in any recording situation whether you are making a simple MIDI guitar solo or running a full-band studio session. In Studio One 6, you can utilize track names, colors, and icons to be able to easily identify your tracks.

Track names: When making a track you have the option to name your track right there. However if you want to change this later, you can double click on the track name on either the main screen or in the mixing console. Just double click and type the new name. As tempting as it may be to give the tracks fun names, naming a track what is recorded on it is common-practice. This makes it immediately clear which track is the lead guitar versus the two backing tracks, or which specific drum microphone you are looking at.

Colors: Each track can have a unique color assigned to it. This will cause both the events on that track, as well as any highlights to appear as that color. Studio One will add default colors to tracks as you add them so no tracks will have the same color (until Studio One runs out of color options). To change the color, right click on the color rectangle on the left-most portion of the channel list and you will see a palette of color options appear. Click on the one you want for that track to set it. If there is not a specific color you want, click on the arrow and you can utilize a variety of methods to select from over 65 million color options. 

When setting track colors, I usually give each section a color. Such as the drums are red, the bass is pink, the vocals are blue, etc. If each part is distinct enough I will give them slightly different shades of the color to help them stand out. I will also do the same thing where a folder is a base color and the contents are all slight variations.

Track Icons: Lastly in Studio One 6 you can implement icons to visually identify each channel on the mixing console. This is useful for the same reason as colors, but is less open to interpretation. In order to turn this feature on you must open the mixing console using the button in the bottom right of the screen. Then click on the wrench icon (in the mix window) and find the option called Channel Icons and check the box. You will see a new region of each channel appear above the channel name. Select the track then click on this new area to open the list of icons.

Unfortunately, you are unable to load your own icons into Studio One, but you can easily choose from the large list here by clicking on the icon. The reset button will remove the current icon. There should be enough variations in icons for you to be able to easily identify each track, especially when combined with colors and names.
