Before you can hear any MIDI notes play in Studio One 6, you need to have an instrument set to play them. Start by making a new instrument track with the T key shortcut. You can select an instrument directly from this window if you know what you want, but let’s leave it as empty for now. Once you have your track made, open up the browser window and navigate to the instruments section.

This is where all software synthesizers that Studio One 6 can utilize are located. If you have other instrument plugins installed on your device, you will see them here alongside the ones included with Studio One 6. To help differentiate these, you can sort them by vendor. Here we will only be discussing the instruments that come with Studio One 6. To open the synthesizer, simply click and drag it from the browse window onto the track you just made. The synthesizer interface will open automatically. If you drag to the area below your last track, then Studio One will make a new track with the instrument on it. If you close the interface window and need to open it again, simply click on the small keyboard icon on the track.

Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#The_Browser_Topics/Instruments_and_Effects_Tabs.htm?TocPath=The%2520Browser%257C_____4) for more information on the Instruments tab.

Impact XT:
This is the drum machine instrument in Studio One 6. Depending on your storage space, you may have more or less kits installed, but using the drop down menu, you can select from a variety of drum samples to build a custom drum machine. Impact has eight banks of 16 slots, allowing for a total of 128 different samples per instance of Impact. If you want, you can also drag and drop other audio files into Impact; these can be anything, not just drums! Once a file has been loaded into impact, there are a variety of settings and alterations you can make inorder to have Studio One playback the audio just how you want it. From there, while recording, you can trigger the sound either with a MIDI controller or by clicking on the virtual drum pads to trigger the audio file. The MIDI note for each pad is given in the corner.

You need to load samples either manually or via a preset in order to hear anything in Impact. There are no sounds loaded by default.

Mai Tai:
Mai Tai is a polyphonic synth that is generally used for a variety of purposes in Studio One. You can utilize this for chords, leads, basslines, and just about anything else. Mai Tai has two main oscillators, filters, amplitude envelopes, and a few built in effects. One thing to note however, is that this will sound distinctly like a synthesizer. It is NOT used to model real-world instruments.

Mojito: 
By comparison, Mojito looks much smaller than the other synthesizers. Its interface only has a few knobs on it. Timbrally, Mojito is fairly similar to Mai Tai, but there is one important distinction. Whereas Mai Tai can play multiple notes at one time, Mojito is monophonic. This means that it can only play one note at a time. If you were to try and play a chord, then either multiple notes will be ignored, or Mojito will play one then slide to the next note. Because of the monophony, Mojito is generally used for basslines or melodic content; basically everything that isn’t a chord. By comparison, it has a simple single oscillator, a filter, envelope, and a few effects.

Presence XT:
Presence is mainly used to replicate real-world instruments within Studio One 6. This is useful for including instruments in your project that you may not have access to record. Once you have selected an instrument from the presets, you can then utilize the interface, which is almost identical to the Mai Tai interface to tweak exactly how the instruments sound. One important thing to note however are the red keys on the left side of the piano roll that will change for each preset. These do not play a note, but rather change the loaded program for that instrument. For example, a string instrument would play normally, but you could swap to a tremolo, a crescendo, harmonics, or several other playing techniques by hitting that specific MIDI note. The MIDI notes that create pitches for a given preset are indicated with a white bar above the notes.

You must select a base program for Presence to make sounds. It will not work without a base programmed instrument to model.

SampleOne:
SampleOne is similar to Impact in the way that you need to load sounds into the instrument in order for it to begin making audio. However instead of loading multiple samples and playing back different ones, SampleOne will load a single sample and then transpose it along the keyboard. This can allow you to use a single sample at a variety of pitches or as a chord quickly and easily. You can either drag and drop a pre-recorded sample into SampleOne, or record directly into the instrument. From there you can edit the audio in many of the same ways as you could in Impact. One important thing to note is that the transposition occurs by changing the playback speed of the sample, so higher pitches will play quicker than lower pitches.

You need to load or record samples in order to hear anything in SampleOne. There are no sounds loaded by default.

Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Built-In_Instruments_Topics/Chapter-Built_in_Virtual_Instruments.htm?TocPath=Built-in%2520Virtual%2520Instruments%257C_____0) for more information on each of the instruments included in Studio One 6.