When working in Studio One, or any other DAW for that matter, the project file is NOT what you need to export for other people to be able to listen to your work. The project file is only a text file full of instructions for Studio One to be able to locate the necessary files and build the session; it does not have anything needed to actually playback the audio. Unless your teacher or someone else is specifically requesting a .song file, you should never send these out. Not because it is problematic, but because you will inevitably have to send the correct file before anything can be done with it.

In order to export the correct files so that people can listen to your project, you need to use the export window. This can be accessed with the “CMD/CTRL + E” shortcut, or from the song menu at the top of the screen. This opens the Export Mixdown window. A mixdown takes all of the various tracks in your project and renders them as a stereo audio file that can be listened to on a variety of devices. In this window you will first want to give your mixdown a name so that you can find it later. The default name of ‘mixdown’ is not helpful for this. You can also choose a specific place for the files to save to if you would like.

Next you will need to select the format for the file you wish to export. You can select multiple varieties and adjust their settings depending on what you need. For this course, sticking to .mp3 and .wav files are recommended. Both are highly compatible with most devices, and are easy enough to work with. .mp3 files are useful for smaller-scale projects as they do not require as much space, whereas .wav files are uncompressed, so they have higher degree of fidelity. I recommend saving the .wav file formatting for larger projects and final mixes, but be sure to follow your teacher’s instructions. 

Once you have selected the formatting, you must then choose exactly what portions of your project you wish to export. The timeline markers and loop bar are used for this. I recommend utilizing the loop bar as you can quickly see and adjust the portion of the project you wish to export from the main screen. I also recommend adjusting this BEFORE you open the Export Mixdown window, as you will have to close this window to adjust the bar and re-open it to continue the export. Once the loop bar has been used to highlight the content you wish to export, be sure to select the option “between loop”. Regardless of the selection method you choose, be sure to look at the duration window to make sure the exported audio matches with what you expect. Otherwise you may have large sections of unwanted silence or accidentally cut off a portion of your project.

From there you can adjust loudness if you do not plan to do any audio mastering, and adjust a few more settings. For the purposes of this class, you generally won’t need to worry about these sections. Click OK to export the audio. When done, Studio One will open a file browser window showing the file you just created so that you can easily open it or send it wherever you need to.

If the audio you exported was too loud and resulted in clipping, a warning dialogue box will pop up. This window informs you that clipping has occurred, and by how much. Clipping is not desired, so Studio One will ask if you would like to delete the file to try again. Selecting Yes here will delete the file and return you to the main project page. Selecting No will keep the clipping file. The best way to avoid clipping is to make sure nothing is too loud throughout the mix. Here I will mention two “quick and dirty” ways to remove clipping, but ideally you should be going through the mix to identify and remedy the problem. 

The first method is to lower the main output’s volume slider. This will lower the volume of everything, preserving the balance between the various elements. I recommend starting with smaller increments, usually around the amount indicated in the clipping warning window. The second method is my preferred quick way of removing clipping. To do this, simply add a limiter to the post section of your main output channel in the mix window, and set the limiter to the “0dB limiting” preset. This will keep the audio volume from passing 0dB, and eliminate clipping.

Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Mixing_Topics/Mixing_Down.htm?TocPath=Mixing%257C_____14) for more inforation on exporting mixdowns of your projects.
