Before we can begin making sounds in Studio One, you first need to have the software installed on your computer. If you are doing this as part of a class at school, then don’t worry. The school will install the software for you. However if you would like to have Studio One on your personal device, you will need to follow these steps:

1. Get a license from Presonus. 
    In order to utilize Studio One, you will need to have a license. Presonus offers a free version called Studio One Prime, an intermediate version called Studio One Artist, and a full version called Studio One Professional. Keep in mind that the free and intermediate versions do not have all of the features present in Studio One Professional. Presonus also offers a subscription service called Studio One +. Check out the [Presonus website]( https://www.presonus.com/en-US/studio-one-compare.html) to decide which version is right for you! (If you are unsure, start with Studio One Prime and then you can upgrade at a later date!)

2. Install and Authorize Studio One. 
    Once you have acquired a license for Studio One, you can go ahead and install the software. To get to the download page, log in to your Presonus account (needed to acquire a license) and navigate to the products page. Click on your Studio One license and download the installer for your operating system. Follow the installation directions in the wizard. Once installed, open Studio One and enter your Presonus login info to authorize the software and install any additional plugins you may have bought.

For more information on installing and authorizing Studio One 6 on your device, check out the [Studio One online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Getting_Started_Topics/Chapter-Installation_and_Activation.htm?TocPath=_____2).

3. A Tour of Studio One 6. 
    At the time of writing, Studio One 6.2 is the most up-to-date version of Studio One. When opening Studio One, a window will appear showing the various setup processes. For the most part you can ignore this. If the setup needs your input, or runs into any issues it will appear here for you to respond to. Once ready, the main Studio One window will appear. This window has three main sections:

* The leftmost section of the window is used for opening and creating new sessions. You will see previous sessions that can be opened listed here and can filter them by type. You can also open a new session (either blank or from a variety of templates), open a file from the computer’s file browser, or join a project for online collaboration. The middle section of the opening window shows two main items. The first is your profile information. This can be filled out or ignored, but information here can be filled into the meta-data for exported audio and video files. The second portion of this area shows important setup information. The audio setup can be changed to a different audio interfaces and drivers, the sample rate, buffer size, and other settings can also be accessed here. The final section of the opening window shows social media posts from Presonus. Updates to the software, instructional videos, and other projects will automatically appear here.
    Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Pages_Topics/Start.htm?TocPath=Pages%257C_____1) for more information on the start page.

Let’s make a new Studio One Song Session. To do this, click on the + icon and select the default template (labeled “Record and Mix”). You can choose a name and location for your project to be saved with. It is HIGHLY recommended to give your projects an identifying name so that you can find it. Studio One will create a default name, but these become hard to manage, especially when utilizing Studio One on a school computer. Click open to see a new window with 5 sections. Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Setup_Topics/Creating_a_New_Song.htm?TocPath=Setup%257C_____6) for more information on making a new song.

* The largest part of the screen is shown in the middle. This is where your audio and MIDI clips will live. Moving them vertically will change which track the clips are located on, and moving them horizontally will change their timing location. The time can be seen in the timeline at the top of this section.
* The left side of the screen shows the various channels present in your session. As you add more and rearrange your tracks, they will appear here. You can also control the volume, mute, solo, monitoring, and input for these tracks from here as well. At the top of this section are the controls to toggle various other toolbars that all appear above the middle section.
* The right-most section of the screen is devoted to the browse window. This can be hidden by clicking the button labeled “Browse” in the bottom right of the screen. This window is used for navigating through a variety of items. Plugins, synthesizers, presets, audio files, loops, and more can all be found here and dragged-and-dropped into the session wherever is needed.
* At the bottom of the Studio One window is a toolbar containing a large amount of useful items. As a whole, this toolbar is called the Transport Bar. Moving from left to right on the Transport Bar, first is recording information such as MIDI data transfer, CPU usage, total recording time available. Next is playback information. This includes the current playhead position, playback controls (forward, refined, record, play, loop, etc.), and the markers for the left and right ends of any looped sections. The ext sections contains information on timing and can be used to set up the internal metronome or subdivisions of the timeline. The final section shows the playback volume, and can be used to adjust the output level for the whole .song project. Lastly, just to the right of the transport bar are three buttons. “Browse” toggles the browse window, “Mix” opens the mixing console window, and “Edit” opens a window used for editing either audio or MIDI files. (more on these later)
* The top-most section of the Studio One window contains several editing tools. Moving from left to right, first is the MIDI assignment window. If using a MIDI controller, various parameters can be mapped here. The next section has a variety of tools that can be utilized with the mouse. These include the main, context-sensitive tool for moving and trimming various clips, drawing lines, and splitting clips. The next section has more complex tools that have mini toolbars. These include quantization, macro controls, and removal of silence. Next are the controls for the timeline. The display and subdivisions can all be selected here. This is followed by a few miscellaneous tools such as how the screen follows the project content when playing back, opening the video window, and the help window. Last, the three icons on the right of the screen allow you to see if any downloads are happening, return to the main window, and jump to any open sessions respectively.

Check out the [Studio One 6 online manual](https://s1manual.presonus.com/StudioOneReferenceManual.htm#Pages_Topics/Song.htm?TocPath=Pages%257C_____2) or this video for more informaition on the Song page.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9yyty9dB5rk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This video goes over key aspects of the transport bar: 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0-QpNX7xDjE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
